Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in October
suggests that economic activity is expanding at a moderate pace. Labor market
conditions improved further, with solid job gains and a lower unemployment
rate. On balance, a range of labor market indicators suggests that
underutilization of labor resources continues to diminish. Household spending
is rising moderately and business fixed investment is advancing, while the
recovery in the housing sector remains slow. Inflation has continued to run
below the Committee's longer-run objective, partly reflecting declines in
energy prices. Market-based measures of inflation compensation have declined
somewhat further; survey-based measures of longer-term inflation expectations
have remained stable.

Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum
employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate
policy accommodation, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace, with
labor market indicators moving toward levels the Committee judges consistent
with its dual mandate. The Committee sees the risks to the outlook for economic
activity and the labor market as nearly balanced. The Committee expects
inflation to rise gradually toward 2 percent as the labor market improves
further and the transitory effects of lower energy prices and other factors
dissipate. The Committee continues to monitor inflation developments closely.

To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability,
the Committee today reaffirmed its view that the current 0 to 1/4 percent
target range for the federal funds rate remains appropriate. In determining how
long to maintain this target range, the Committee will assess progress--both
realized and expected--toward its objectives of maximum employment and 2
percent inflation. This assessment will take into account a wide range of
information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of
inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial
developments. Based on its current assessment, the Committee judges that it can
be patient in beginning to normalize the stance of monetary policy. The
Committee sees this guidance as consistent with its previous statement that it
likely will be appropriate to maintain the 0 to 1/4 percent target range for
the federal funds rate for a considerable time following the end of its asset
purchase program in October, especially if projected inflation continues to run
below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and provided that longer-term
inflation expectations remain well anchored. However, if incoming information
indicates faster progress toward the Committee's employment and inflation
objectives than the Committee now expects, then increases in the target range
for the federal funds rate are likely to occur sooner than currently
anticipated. Conversely, if progress proves slower than expected, then
increases in the target range are likely to occur later than currently
anticipated.

The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal
payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities
in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury
securities at auction. This policy, by keeping the Committee's holdings of
longer-term securities at sizable levels, should help maintain accommodative
financial conditions.

When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will
take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum
employment and inflation of 2 percent. The Committee currently anticipates
that, even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels,
economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal
funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run.

Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Janet L. Yellen, Chair;
William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; Lael Brainard; Stanley Fischer; Loretta J.
Mester; Jerome H. Powell; and Daniel K. Tarullo.

Voting against the action were Richard W. Fisher, who believed that, while the
Committee should be patient in beginning to normalize monetary policy,
improvement in the U.S. economic performance since October has moved forward,
further than the majority of the Committee envisions, the date when it will
likely be appropriate to increase the federal funds rate; Narayana
Kocherlakota, who believed that the Committee's decision, in the context of
ongoing low inflation and falling market-based measures of longer-term
inflation expectations, created undue downside risk to the credibility of the 2
percent inflation target; and Charles I. Plosser, who believed that the
statement should not stress the importance of the passage of time as a key
element of its forward guidance and, given the improvement in economic
conditions, should not emphasize the consistency of the current forward
guidance with previous statements.
