Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in January
indicates that growth in economic activity slowed during the winter months, in
part reflecting adverse weather conditions. Labor market indicators were mixed
but on balance showed further improvement. The unemployment rate, however,
remains elevated. Household spending and business fixed investment continued to
advance, while the recovery in the housing sector remained slow. Fiscal policy
is restraining economic growth, although the extent of restraint is
diminishing. Inflation has been running below the Committee's longer-run
objective, but longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable.

Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum
employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate
policy accommodation, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace and
labor market conditions will continue to improve gradually, moving toward those
the Committee judges consistent with its dual mandate. The Committee sees the
risks to the outlook for the economy and the labor market as nearly balanced.
The Committee recognizes that inflation persistently below its 2 percent
objective could pose risks to economic performance, and it is monitoring
inflation developments carefully for evidence that inflation will move back
toward its objective over the medium term.

The Committee currently judges that there is sufficient underlying strength in
the broader economy to support ongoing improvement in labor market conditions.
In light of the cumulative progress toward maximum employment and the
improvement in the outlook for labor market conditions since the inception of
the current asset purchase program, the Committee decided to make a further
measured reduction in the pace of its asset purchases. Beginning in April, the
Committee will add to its holdings of agency mortgage-backed securities at a
pace of $25 billion per month rather than $30 billion per month, and will add
to its holdings of longer-term Treasury securities at a pace of $30 billion per
month rather than $35 billion per month. The Committee is maintaining its
existing policy of reinvesting principal payments from its holdings of agency
debt and agency mortgage-backed securities in agency mortgage-backed securities
and of rolling over maturing Treasury securities at auction. The Committee's
sizable and still-increasing holdings of longer-term securities should maintain
downward pressure on longer-term interest rates, support mortgage markets, and
help to make broader financial conditions more accommodative, which in turn
should promote a stronger economic recovery and help to ensure that inflation,
over time, is at the rate most consistent with the Committee's dual mandate.

The Committee will closely monitor incoming information on economic and
financial developments in coming months and will continue its purchases of
Treasury and agency mortgage-backed securities, and employ its other policy
tools as appropriate, until the outlook for the labor market has improved
substantially in a context of price stability. If incoming information broadly
supports the Committee's expectation of ongoing improvement in labor market
conditions and inflation moving back toward its longer-run objective, the
Committee will likely reduce the pace of asset purchases in further measured
steps at future meetings. However, asset purchases are not on a preset course,
and the Committee's decisions about their pace will remain contingent on the
Committee's outlook for the labor market and inflation as well as its
assessment of the likely efficacy and costs of such purchases.

To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability,
the Committee today reaffirmed its view that a highly accommodative stance of
monetary policy remains appropriate. In determining how long to maintain the
current 0 to 1/4 percent target range for the federal funds rate, the Committee
will assess progress--both realized and expected--toward its objectives of
maximum employment and 2 percent inflation. This assessment will take into
account a wide range of information, including measures of labor market
conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and
readings on financial developments. The Committee continues to anticipate,
based on its assessment of these factors, that it likely will be appropriate to
maintain the current target range for the federal funds rate for a considerable
time after the asset purchase program ends, especially if projected inflation
continues to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run goal, and provided
that longer-term inflation expectations remain well anchored.

When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will
take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum
employment and inflation of 2 percent. The Committee currently anticipates
that, even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels,
economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal
funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run.

With the unemployment rate nearing 6-1/2 percent, the Committee has updated its
forward guidance. The change in the Committee's guidance does not indicate any
change in the Committee's policy intentions as set forth in its recent
statements.

Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Janet L. Yellen, Chair;
William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; Richard W. Fisher; Sandra Pianalto; Charles
I. Plosser; Jerome H. Powell; Jeremy C. Stein; and Daniel K. Tarullo.

Voting against the action was Narayana Kocherlakota, who supported the sixth
paragraph, but believed the fifth paragraph weakens the credibility of the
Committee's commitment to return inflation to the 2 percent target from below
and fosters policy uncertainty that hinders economic activity.

[Statement Regarding Purchases of Treasury Securities and Agency
Mortgage-Backed
Securities](http://www.newyorkfed.org/markets/opolicy/operating_policy_140319.html)
