Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in April
suggests that economic activity has been expanding moderately after having
changed little during the first quarter. The pace of job gains picked up while
the unemployment rate remained steady. On balance, a range of labor market
indicators suggests that underutilization of labor resources diminished
somewhat. Growth in household spending has been moderate and the housing sector
has shown some improvement; however, business fixed investment and net exports
stayed soft. Inflation continued to run below the Committee's longer-run
objective, partly reflecting earlier declines in energy prices and decreasing
prices of non-energy imports; energy prices appear to have stabilized.
Market-based measures of inflation compensation remain low; survey-based
measures of longer-term inflation expectations have remained stable.

Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum
employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate
policy accommodation, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace, with
labor market indicators continuing to move toward levels the Committee judges
consistent with its dual mandate. The Committee continues to see the risks to
the outlook for economic activity and the labor market as nearly balanced.
Inflation is anticipated to remain near its recent low level in the near term,
but the Committee expects inflation to rise gradually toward 2 percent over the
medium term as the labor market improves further and the transitory effects of
earlier declines in energy and import prices dissipate. The Committee continues
to monitor inflation developments closely.

To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability,
the Committee today reaffirmed its view that the current 0 to 1/4 percent
target range for the federal funds rate remains appropriate. In determining how
long to maintain this target range, the Committee will assess progress--both
realized and expected--toward its objectives of maximum employment and 2
percent inflation. This assessment will take into account a wide range of
information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of
inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial and
international developments. The Committee anticipates that it will be
appropriate to raise the target range for the federal funds rate when it has
seen further improvement in the labor market and is reasonably confident that
inflation will move back to its 2 percent objective over the medium term.

The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal
payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities
in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury
securities at auction. This policy, by keeping the Committee's holdings of
longer-term securities at sizable levels, should help maintain accommodative
financial conditions.

When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will
take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum
employment and inflation of 2 percent. The Committee currently anticipates
that, even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels,
economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal
funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run.

Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Janet L. Yellen, Chair;
William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; Lael Brainard; Charles L. Evans; Stanley
Fischer; Jeffrey M. Lacker; Dennis P. Lockhart; Jerome H. Powell; Daniel K.
Tarullo; and John C. Williams.
