Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in October
suggests that economic activity has been expanding at a moderate pace.
Household spending and business fixed investment have been increasing at solid
rates in recent months, and the housing sector has improved further; however,
net exports have been soft. A range of recent labor market indicators,
including ongoing job gains and declining unemployment, shows further
improvement and confirms that underutilization of labor resources has
diminished appreciably since early this year. Inflation has continued to run
below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run objective, partly reflecting
declines in energy prices and in prices of non-energy imports. Market-based
measures of inflation compensation remain low; some survey-based measures of
longer-term inflation expectations have edged down.

Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum
employment and price stability. The Committee currently expects that, with
gradual adjustments in the stance of monetary policy, economic activity will
continue to expand at a moderate pace and labor market indicators will continue
to strengthen. Overall, taking into account domestic and international
developments, the Committee sees the risks to the outlook for both economic
activity and the labor market as balanced. Inflation is expected to rise to 2
percent over the medium term as the transitory effects of declines in energy
and import prices dissipate and the labor market strengthens further. The
Committee continues to monitor inflation developments closely.

The Committee judges that there has been considerable improvement in labor
market conditions this year, and it is reasonably confident that inflation will
rise, over the medium term, to its 2 percent objective. Given the economic
outlook, and recognizing the time it takes for policy actions to affect future
economic outcomes, the Committee decided to raise the target range for the
federal funds rate to 1/4 to 1/2 percent. The stance of monetary policy remains
accommodative after this increase, thereby supporting further improvement in
labor market conditions and a return to 2 percent inflation.

In determining the timing and size of future adjustments to the target range
for the federal funds rate, the Committee will assess realized and expected
economic conditions relative to its objectives of maximum employment and 2
percent inflation. This assessment will take into account a wide range of
information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of
inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial and
international developments. In light of the current shortfall of inflation from
2 percent, the Committee will carefully monitor actual and expected progress
toward its inflation goal. The Committee expects that economic conditions will
evolve in a manner that will warrant only gradual increases in the federal
funds rate; the federal funds rate is likely to remain, for some time, below
levels that are expected to prevail in the longer run. However, the actual path
of the federal funds rate will depend on the economic outlook as informed by
incoming data.

The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal
payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities
in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury
securities at auction, and it anticipates doing so until normalization of the
level of the federal funds rate is well under way. This policy, by keeping the
Committee's holdings of longer-term securities at sizable levels, should help
maintain accommodative financial conditions.

Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Janet L. Yellen, Chair;
William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; Lael Brainard; Charles L. Evans; Stanley
Fischer; Jeffrey M. Lacker; Dennis P. Lockhart; Jerome H. Powell; Daniel K.
Tarullo; and John C. Williams.

[Implementation Note issued December 16,
2015](https://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/press/monetary/20151216a1.htm)
