Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in December
suggests that economic activity has been expanding at a solid pace.  Labor
market conditions have improved further, with strong job gains and a lower
unemployment rate.  On balance, a range of labor market indicators suggests
that underutilization of labor resources continues to diminish.  Household
spending is rising moderately; recent declines in energy prices have boosted
household purchasing power.  Business fixed investment is advancing, while the
recovery in the housing sector remains slow.  Inflation has declined further
below the Committee’s longer-run objective, largely reflecting declines in
energy prices.  Market-based measures of inflation compensation have declined
substantially in recent months; survey-based measures of longer-term inflation
expectations have remained stable.

Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum
employment and price stability.  The Committee expects that, with appropriate
policy accommodation, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace, with
labor market indicators continuing to move toward levels the Committee judges
consistent with its dual mandate.  The Committee continues to see the risks to
the outlook for economic activity and the labor market as nearly balanced.
Inflation is anticipated to decline further in the near term, but the Committee
expects inflation to rise gradually toward 2 percent over the medium term as
the labor market improves further and the transitory effects of lower energy
prices and other factors dissipate.  The Committee continues to monitor
inflation developments closely.

To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability,
the Committee today reaffirmed its view that the current 0 to 1/4 percent
target range for the federal funds rate remains appropriate.  In determining
how long to maintain this target range, the Committee will assess
progress--both realized and expected--toward its objectives of maximum
employment and 2 percent inflation.  This assessment will take into account a
wide range of information, including measures of labor market conditions,
indicators of inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on
financial and international developments.  Based on its current assessment, the
Committee judges that it can be patient in beginning to normalize the stance of
monetary policy.  However, if incoming information indicates faster progress
toward the Committee’s employment and inflation objectives than the Committee
now expects, then increases in the target range for the federal funds rate are
likely to occur sooner than currently anticipated.  Conversely, if progress
proves slower than expected, then increases in the target range are likely to
occur later than currently anticipated.

The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal
payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities
in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury
securities at auction.  This policy, by keeping the Committee’s holdings of
longer-term securities at sizable levels, should help maintain accommodative
financial conditions.

When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will
take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum
employment and inflation of 2 percent.  The Committee currently anticipates
that, even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels,
economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal
funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run.

Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Janet L. Yellen, Chair;
William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; Lael Brainard; Charles L. Evans; Stanley
Fischer; Jeffrey M. Lacker; Dennis P. Lockhart; Jerome H. Powell; Daniel K.
Tarullo; and John C. Williams.
