Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in September
suggests that economic activity has been expanding at a moderate pace.
Household spending and business fixed investment have been increasing at solid
rates in recent months, and the housing sector has improved further; however,
net exports have been soft. The pace of job gains slowed and the unemployment
rate held steady. Nonetheless, labor market indicators, on balance, show that
underutilization of labor resources has diminished since early this year.
Inflation has continued to run below the Committee's longer-run objective,
partly reflecting declines in energy prices and in prices of non-energy
imports. Market-based measures of inflation compensation moved slightly lower;
survey-based measures of longer-term inflation expectations have remained
stable.

Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum
employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with appropriate
policy accommodation, economic activity will expand at a moderate pace, with
labor market indicators continuing to move toward levels the Committee judges
consistent with its dual mandate. The Committee continues to see the risks to
the outlook for economic activity and the labor market as nearly balanced but
is monitoring global economic and financial developments. Inflation is
anticipated to remain near its recent low level in the near term but the
Committee expects inflation to rise gradually toward 2 percent over the medium
term as the labor market improves further and the transitory effects of
declines in energy and import prices dissipate. The Committee continues to
monitor inflation developments closely.

To support continued progress toward maximum employment and price stability,
the Committee today reaffirmed its view that the current 0 to 1/4 percent
target range for the federal funds rate remains appropriate. In determining
whether it will be appropriate to raise the target range at its next meeting,
the Committee will assess progress--both realized and expected--toward its
objectives of maximum employment and 2 percent inflation. This assessment will
take into account a wide range of information, including measures of labor
market conditions, indicators of inflation pressures and inflation
expectations, and readings on financial and international developments. The
Committee anticipates that it will be appropriate to raise the target range for
the federal funds rate when it has seen some further improvement in the labor
market and is reasonably confident that inflation will move back to its 2
percent objective over the medium term.

The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal
payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities
in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury
securities at auction. This policy, by keeping the Committee's holdings of
longer-term securities at sizable levels, should help maintain accommodative
financial conditions.

When the Committee decides to begin to remove policy accommodation, it will
take a balanced approach consistent with its longer-run goals of maximum
employment and inflation of 2 percent. The Committee currently anticipates
that, even after employment and inflation are near mandate-consistent levels,
economic conditions may, for some time, warrant keeping the target federal
funds rate below levels the Committee views as normal in the longer run.

Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Janet L. Yellen, Chair;
William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; Lael Brainard; Charles L. Evans; Stanley
Fischer; Dennis P. Lockhart; Jerome H. Powell; Daniel K. Tarullo; and John C.
Williams. Voting against the action was Jeffrey M. Lacker, who preferred to
raise the target range for the federal funds rate by 25 basis points at this
meeting.
