Information received since the Federal Open Market Committee met in July
indicates that the labor market has continued to strengthen and growth of
economic activity has picked up from the modest pace seen in the first half of
this year. Although the unemployment rate is little changed in recent months,
job gains have been solid, on average. Household spending has been growing
strongly but business fixed investment has remained soft. Inflation has
continued to run below the Committee's 2 percent longer-run objective, partly
reflecting earlier declines in energy prices and in prices of non-energy
imports. Market-based measures of inflation compensation remain low; most
survey-based measures of longer-term inflation expectations are little changed,
on balance, in recent months.

Consistent with its statutory mandate, the Committee seeks to foster maximum
employment and price stability. The Committee expects that, with gradual
adjustments in the stance of monetary policy, economic activity will expand at
a moderate pace and labor market conditions will strengthen somewhat further.
Inflation is expected to remain low in the near term, in part because of
earlier declines in energy prices, but to rise to 2 percent over the medium
term as the transitory effects of past declines in energy and import prices
dissipate and the labor market strengthens further. Near-term risks to the
economic outlook appear roughly balanced. The Committee continues to closely
monitor inflation indicators and global economic and financial developments.

Against this backdrop, the Committee decided to maintain the target range for
the federal funds rate at 1/4 to 1/2 percent. The Committee judges that the
case for an increase in the federal funds rate has strengthened but decided,
for the time being, to wait for further evidence of continued progress toward
its objectives. The stance of monetary policy remains accommodative, thereby
supporting further improvement in labor market conditions and a return to 2
percent inflation.

In determining the timing and size of future adjustments to the target range
for the federal funds rate, the Committee will assess realized and expected
economic conditions relative to its objectives of maximum employment and 2
percent inflation. This assessment will take into account a wide range of
information, including measures of labor market conditions, indicators of
inflation pressures and inflation expectations, and readings on financial and
international developments. In light of the current shortfall of inflation from
2 percent, the Committee will carefully monitor actual and expected progress
toward its inflation goal. The Committee expects that economic conditions will
evolve in a manner that will warrant only gradual increases in the federal
funds rate; the federal funds rate is likely to remain, for some time, below
levels that are expected to prevail in the longer run. However, the actual path
of the federal funds rate will depend on the economic outlook as informed by
incoming data.

The Committee is maintaining its existing policy of reinvesting principal
payments from its holdings of agency debt and agency mortgage-backed securities
in agency mortgage-backed securities and of rolling over maturing Treasury
securities at auction, and it anticipates doing so until normalization of the
level of the federal funds rate is well under way. This policy, by keeping the
Committee's holdings of longer-term securities at sizable levels, should help
maintain accommodative financial conditions.

Voting for the FOMC monetary policy action were: Janet L. Yellen, Chair;
William C. Dudley, Vice Chairman; Lael Brainard; James Bullard; Stanley
Fischer; Jerome H. Powell; and Daniel K. Tarullo. Voting against the action
were: Esther L. George, Loretta J. Mester, and Eric Rosengren, each of whom
preferred at this meeting to raise the target range for the federal funds rate
to 1/2 to 3/4 percent.

[Implementation Note issued September 21,
2016](https://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/press/monetary/20160921a1.htm)
